W-14001035-JAR-signature-validator-LDS (#702)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: runtime-manager/modules/ROOT/pages/rtm-agent-app-validator.adoc

include::reuse::partial$non-inclusive-banner.adoc[]

> The Application Validator Service allows you to create your own custom validators and prevent your application from being deployed if certain conditions are not met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Application Validator Service enables you to create your own custom validators that prevent your application from being deployed if certain conditions are not met.
```

> Depending on the Mule Runtime Agent configuration, the service invokes your custom validators to enforce their business rules, such as signing validation, naming conventions or moratorium dates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the Mule Runtime Agent configuration, the service invokes your custom validators to enforce business rules, such as signing validation, naming conventions, or moratorium dates.
```

image:app-validator-chart.png[Application Validation Flowchart]

== Create an Application Validator

> You can follow these steps to create a custom validator that checks the value of an application property and stops the deployment if it does not meet the specified criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to create a custom validator that checks the value of an application property and stops the deployment if it does not meet the specified criteria:
```

Reviewer: It is not clear what "it" refers to. Can you clarify?

> * <<create-a-maven-project>>

Reviewer: The text in these steps should not be initial-capped. Even though these refer to headings, they should be written as regular text since they are formatted as steps and not as See Also topics.

<<create-a-maven-project, Create a Maven project>>.
etc.

* <<create-the-project-object-model-pom-file, Create the Project Object Model (POM) file.>>
* <<create-the-validator-class, Create the validator class.>>
* <<implement-business-logic, Implement business logic.>>
* <<implement-custom-exceptions, Implement custom exceptions.>>
* <<add-the-guice-configuration, Add the Guice configuration.>>
* <<build-the-application-validator, Build the application validator.>>
* <<install-the-application-validator, Install the application validator.>>

> * <<update-the-mule-agent-yml-file, Update the mule-agent.yml file.>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<update-the-mule-agent-yml-file, Update the `mule-agent.yml` file.>>
```

./mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/agent/App.java
----

=== Create the Project Object Model (POM) File

Create a POM file with the following configuration details:

==== Properties

> . Access the generated folder and find the generated `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the generated folder and locate the generated `pom.xml` file.
```

=== Create the Validator Class

. Rename the default class to `MuleAgentHelloValidator`: 
+
*Before*: `mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/App.java`
+
*After*: `mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/MuleAgentHelloValidator.java`

. Add the following annotations:
+
[source,java,linenums]
----
@Named("MuleAgentHelloValidator")
@Singleton
----

> . Add the following property to obtain a named logger based on our class:

Reviewer: What does "our class" mean?

}
----

> . Add the args parameter, which contains the validator configuration that is provided in the `mule-agent.yml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `args` parameter, which contains the validator configuration provided in the `mule-agent.yml` file:
```

=== Implement Business Logic

> In the following example, every application deployed in the Mule runtime must have an application property called _business_. Its value represents the department owner of the application.

Reviewer: I think that business should have back ticks around it instead of underscores.

}
----

> Te project directory layout shows the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project directory layout shows the following:
```

}
----

> . Create the `BaseModuleProvider` Class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `BaseModuleProvider` class.
```

./mule-agent-hello-validator/src/main/java/org/example/agent/configuration/guice/MuleAgentHelloValidatorProvider.java
----

=== Build the Agent Validator

Run the following command:

[source,console,linenums]
----
mvn clean install
----

A JAR file is generated in the target directory:

[source,java,linenums]
----
./mule-agent-hello-validator/target
./mule-agent-hello-validator/target/mule-agent-hello-validator-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
----

=== Install the Agent Validator

. Place the JAR file in `$MULE_HOME/server-plugins/mule-agent-plugin/lib`.

> . Access the args parameter keys and values and print them out to the console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Access the `args` parameter keys and values and print them to the console:
```

> === Start the Mule

Reviewer: Start Mule Runtime?

> Start the Mule and verify that the validator configuration was successful. The console shows following logs:

Reviewer: the Mule > Mule runtime

== Deploy an Application

> Once the validator has been built and installed, the Agent Validator Service invokes the custom validator when deploying an application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the validator is built and installed, the Agent Validator Service invokes the custom validator when you deploy an application:
```

Reviewer: Can you make this more active?

Does the Agent Validator Service deploy an application? If not, you need to change the last part of the sentence.

== Encrypt Values in the Validator Configuration

> If the validator requires a secret provided in the `mule-agent.yml`, you can use the `amc_setup.sh` script to encrypt secrets, passwords or any other value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the validator requires a secret provided in the `mule-agent.yml`, you can use the `amc_setup.sh` script to encrypt secrets, passwords, or any other value. 
```

> Visit https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#encrypt-passwords[Encrypt Passwords] to obtain more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, visit xref:installing-and-configuring-runtime-manager-agent#encrypt-passwords[Encrypt Passwords].
```

Reviewer: It is better to flip this and have why a user would click the link first. This way, the user has less text to read before deciding if they want to click the link.

For more information, visit...

== Decrypt Values in the Validator

You can use the the encryption service to decrypt values. 

> . Inject the encryption service in your validator class:

Reviewer: in > into?
